Doctor: Good morning, what brings you to the Outpatient department today?
Patient: Good morning doctor, I have some discomfort in my neck and lower back, and I'm not able to maintain an erect posture.
Doctor: Hmm, okay. Can you tell me more about the discomfort?
Patient: Yes, I tend to fall on either side when I stand up from a sitting position, and my head is always turned to the right and upwards.
Doctor: I see. Are you experiencing any pain in your neck?
Patient: Yes, I have pain and discomfort in my neck.
Doctor: Okay. And what about your back?
Patient: There is a sideways bending in my lumbar region. To counter the abnormal positioning of my back and neck, I have to keep my limbs in a specific position to allow my body weight to be supported.
Doctor: I understand. Does this restriction of body movements affect your daily life?
Patient: Yes, I need assistance in standing and walking, and my parents have to help me with my daily chores, including all activities of self-care.
Doctor: I see. How long have you been experiencing these difficulties?
Patient: I've been experiencing these difficulties for the past four months since I was introduced to olanzapine tablets for the control of my exacerbated mental illness.
Doctor: I see. And you've been diagnosed with bipolar affective disorder, correct?
Patient: Yes, I was diagnosed with bipolar affective disorder seven years ago.
Doctor: And you've been taking olanzapine for your mental illness for seven years, correct?
Patient: Yes, I have. My first episode of the affective disorder was mania when I was eleven, and I've been taking olanzapine tablets in 2.5-10 mg doses per day at different times.
Doctor: I see. So, you developed pain and discomfort in your neck within the second week of being put on olanzapine at a dose of 5 mg per day, correct?
Patient: Yes, that's correct. The sustained and abnormal contraction of my neck muscles pulls my head to the right in an upward direction.
Doctor: I see. And these features have persisted for the first three years of your illness with a varying intensity, distress, and dysfunction, correct?
Patient: Yes, that's correct. The intensity, distress, and dysfunction tend to correlate with the dose of olanzapine.
Doctor: I see. And apart from a brief period of around three weeks when you were given trihexyphenidyl 4 mg per day for rigidity in your upper limbs, you were not prescribed any other psychotropic medication, correct?
Patient: Yes, that's correct. The rigidity showed good response to trihexyphenidyl 4 mg per day.
Doctor: Okay. I'm going to order some tests for you, and I'll be able to give you a proper diagnosis after that.
Patient: Okay, doctor.
Doctor: I'll also instruct you on follow-up requirements.
Patient: Okay, thank you, doctor.