A a sixteen year-old girl, presented to our Outpatient department with the complaints of discomfort in the neck and lower back as well as restriction of body movements. She was not able to maintain an erect posture and would tend to fall on either side while standing up from a sitting position. She would keep her head turned to the right and upwards due to the sustained contraction of the neck muscles. There was a sideways bending of the back in the lumbar region. To counter the abnormal positioning of the back and neck, she would keep her limbs in a specific position to allow her body weight to be supported. Due to the restrictions with the body movements at the neck and in the lumbar region, she would require assistance in standing and walking. She would require her parents to help her with daily chores, including all activities of self-care.
She had been experiencing these difficulties for the past four months since when she was introduced to olanzapine tablets for the control of her exacerbated mental illness. This was not her first experience with this drug over the past seven years since she had been diagnosed with bipolar affective disorder. Her first episode of the affective disorder was that of mania at the age of eleven which was managed with the use of olanzapine tablets in 2.5–10 mg doses per day at different times. The patient developed pain and discomfort in her neck within the second week of being put on tablet olanzapine at a dose of 5 mg per day. This was associated with a sustained and abnormal contraction of the neck muscles that would pull her head to the right in an upward direction. These features had persisted for the first three years of her illness with a varying intensity, distress, and dysfunction which would tend to correlate with the dose of olanzapine. Apart from a brief period of around three weeks when she was given tablet trihexyphenidyl 4 mg per day for rigidity in her upper limbs, she was not prescribed any other psychotropic medication. The rigidity showed good response to this medication which was subsequently