A 59-year-old female initially presented to the emergency department 10 months prior with right arm pain and swelling. A computed tomography of the neck with contrast at the time showed two confluent masses in the right axillary and right supraclavicular regions encasing the right subclavian and axillary vein, the internal mammary artery, and narrowing of the lower internal jugular vein. Patient was subsequently diagnosed with primary mammary carcinoma of the axilla with metastasis. The patient was evaluated by the oncology and radiation oncology services and underwent multiple rounds of chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Her course of chemotherapy was complicated by thrombocytopenia and metastatic disease progression. The patient was determined to be a nonsurgical candidate. Gradually, her pain of the right upper extremity worsened, and the patient was started on opioid therapy. Despite titration of her oral medications to extended release morphine 90 mg two times a day, immediate release morphine 30 mg every 2 to 3 hours, methadone 5 mg daily, and gabapentin 800 mg three times daily, her pain control remained suboptimal. She was referred to our pain clinic for further management of her intractable pain.
On presentation, the patient reported a constant 10/10 pain on the numeric pain rating scale (NRS) of the right proximal humerus, right anterior and posterior shoulder, and right supraclavicular region. The pain was reported as dull, aching, burning, and electric in nature. Her pain was worsened by passive and active range of motion, and the pain at its best was a 7/10 with oral medications. Patient also reported progressive weakness of the entire right upper extremity. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brachial plexus was obtained, and the study revealed a mass encasing the right brachial plexus at the level of the divisions and cords as well as the right brachial artery ().
Diagnostic brachial plexus block was performed in the hospital due to functional decline and acute worsening of pain. The brachial plexus was unable to be visualized using ultrasonography in the classic supraclavicular area due to the tumor effect, thus the