Susan is a 51-year-old woman. As an adolescent, she developed scoliosis. Working as a hairstylist when she was 18 or 19, she began to have severe pain in her hands, making her work very difficult. She had carpal tunnel surgery on her right hand which provided temporary relief. Her symptoms slowly returned and she continued to have intense pain and difficulty with her daily activities. Seeking relief from her symptoms, she received treatment from chiropractors and Chinese medicine practitioners with no significant benefit. She also tried yoga and swimming but depending on the yoga movements or swimming strokes, she began to have more pain.
When she was in her early forties, she began to have weakness in the lower half of her body. Her legs would frequently give out on the stairs, causing her to fall. Control of her bladder and bowel function also began to deteriorate. She had an MRI, and based on the results, she was scheduled for emergency surgery to stabilize her cervical spine and relieve spinal cord compression. She was informed that it would be an outpatient surgery and she would be home the same day.
In May 2011, Susan had a 6-level cervical spine fusion to stabilize her spine and relieve pressure on her spinal cord. When she woke up, she realized something was wrong. The entire right side of her body was paralyzed. What was supposed to be an outpatient surgery with a return home the same day ended up being an 8-week hospital and rehabilitation stay to learn how to walk again.
In August 2012, a second surgery was performed with the goal of pain relief. However, she reported her pain was significantly worse afterwards. She would receive weekly injections for pain relief that she reports would only marginally decrease her pain for about one week. She was also taking high doses of medication for nerve pain relief which she also reports provided marginal benefit. She had areas of heightened sensitivity on her legs where a bed sheet or even a gentle breeze would cause intense pain. Exposure to hot water would feel cold, and cold water would feel hot. She was unable to walk more than one block and remained in bed for over ten hours per day. She suffered extensive personal and professional quality of life losses at this time.
Looking for relief, she tried medical yoga and received temporary relief. She also practiced traditional Tai Chi which provided minimal to no relief. She continued to have intense pain which had a significant impact on her quality of life and ability to perform daily tasks, including walking. In 2014, she tried a Qigong class and reported feeling that there was something very different about this class. Almost immediately, she felt a strong sense of relaxation that she had reportedly not found in many years. She was unable to attend many classes, so she purchased a video of the movements. Over the next year, she began to practice the exercises consistently until she could attend formal classes.
Susan credits the practice of qigong with saving her life. She says it gave her a reason to get out of bed and socialize in the very early days of her practice. She is now able to walk with no limitations and her pain has improved by approximately 90%. Within three months of beginning qigong, she was able to stop all medications and injections she was receiving for pain relief. She continues to have some weakness in her arms and her hands, but it does not interfere with her ability to complete her daily activities. Despite her extensive cervical spine surgery, she reports full mobility in her shoulders and has nearly recovered full mobility in her neck. Her energy has also greatly improved and she routinely teaches three Qigong classes per week. In addition to this, she teaches at special events, including a Qigong class at a large yoga festival with over 1000 people in attendance. Recently, she started her first full time job in over six years.
James is a 70-year-old male. Over ten years ago, he was diagnosed with multi-level degenerative disc disease (DDD) in his lumbar spine, as well as severe central stenosis or narrowing of his spinal column around his spinal cord at L3-4, L4-5, and L5-S1. In 2011, he had a CT scan and was told by his physician that it would not be long until he must rely on a wheelchair for all mobility. Surgery was presented as an option, but he was informed that the success rate was less than 10%.
He decided to forgo surgery and take his chances. Gradually, his legs became weaker and he would fall spontaneously. He worked as a salesman and as he was talking to clients, his legs would give out without warning and he would fall to the ground. To help his situation, he would park as close as he could to the entrance of stores or other destinations and would walk with carts or holding onto shelves or furniture. This would only help for so long before he would fall again.
He began looking for other options to help manage his condition. In 2012, he tried yoga. While it helped to temporarily control his pain, it had no effect on the weakness in his legs and he would continue to fall. One year later, at the suggestion of his wife, he tried a Qigong class. Due to his family’s personal schedules, he was unable to attend another class for two months. He decided to purchase a video of the movements he had learned and practiced them each day for 4–5 months until he was able to return to normal classes.
Since participating in Qigong classes, he has not fallen even once, and has no reports of pain. He stated that “Qigong gave me my life back.” He has no other medical problems to mention and takes no medications. He revealed that the improvements he has experienced have gone far beyond what he expected. Where he used to fall often and without notice, he has not fallen since he began qigong and reports that he now even has a “spring to his step, and a spring in his heart.” Not too long ago, he sustained a left rotator cuff tear. After continuing to practice qigong, he had a full return of strength and movement with no pain or difficulty with his routine daily activities, all within six months.
In his professional life, he felt like he was burning out as an IT programmer but practicing qigong has reinvigorated him. He was able to complete many projects (some complex) that he never would have thought possible. He has since become certified to teach Qigong and tells anyone who will listen about his story. He has also witnessed many others gain significant benefit from the practice of Qigong and is thrilled that he gets to share this with others.