Our patient, an eight-year-old girl, presented to our clinic, with severe swelling and facial asymmetry on the right mandibular molar region. We were informed that the patient developed the swelling as a result of an infection three months previously. The patient had been treated with antibiotics, but as that treatment had not proved successful, she was referred to our clinic. In addition, a passed or congenital disease was not specified in the patient's medical history. Clinical examination revealed severe swelling without fluctuation upon palpation and submandibular lymphadenopathy in the right mandibular region. The patient's skin was of normal color and appearance. In the oral examination, the right mandibular first molar tooth was found to have a deep caries cavity and to not be mobile. The other parts of the oral mucosa were normal. The radiographic examination revealed a deep caries cavity and a radiolucent area in the apical region of the right mandibular first molar tooth. There was also a lamellar appearance on the external cortical surface of the mandible as well as at the lower edge of the mandibular corpus, showing focal new bone formation (). When the axial and cross sections were evaluated during the examination with cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT), a tunnel-like defect was identified in the cortical bone in the vestibule surface of the inflamed bone, starting from the apical region of the right mandibular first molar tooth. Bone deposition at the radiolucent area in the center was observed at the lower edge of the mandible as well as the vestibule surface in this region (). When all these findings were evaluated, it was concluded that the pathologic lesion was Garre's osteomyelitis due to the periapical infection of the right mandibular first molar tooth. In this case, endodontic treatment was considered primarily to retain the infected tooth in the mouth. However, as the patient had come from a remote rural area and could not accept such a treatment due to the prohibitive cost, she was transferred to the surgical clinic, where the most appropriate treatment method was considered to be dental extraction