Our patient is a 27-year old female that denied any past medical and surgical history. Her family and drug history were also unremarkable. The patient presented with a 7-month history of progressively enlarging mass on her left ring finger. The patient mentioned that the mass appeared suddenly with no history of trauma and that she was concerned about the potential malignant nature of the mass. The patient also mentioned that she underwent incision and drainage of that mass 2 months after its appearance with no improvement and provided no detailed surgical or pathological reports, which was the reason for her delayed presentation. Upon her assessment, the mass was located over the ulnar side of the proximal phalanx of left ring finger with extensive involvement of the 4th web space. The overlying skin coverage was ulcerative with no active signs of infection. Range of motion of the involved digit was limited, however neurovascular examination was normal. ().
Radiological evaluation of the involved hand showed a soft tissue swelling with no evidence of bone involvement (). Further magnetic resonant (MRI) evaluation showed a mass on the volar aspect of the ring finger encasing about 50% of the flexor tendons of that digit with low signal intensity on T1 and high signal intensity on T2 evaluation with strong enhancement in post contrast evaluation. Assessment of neurovascular structures showed partial abutment of the radial sided bundle together with complete encirclement of the ulnar sided neurovascular bundle. The surrounding bone was free of any masses and associated mass effect.
The patient was taken to the OR for exploration and mass excision by the senior author. Possible risks associated with such intervention were explained. Intra-operatively, bruner type incision was designed together with island of skin involved in the mass. Exploration revealed extensive subcutaneous mass with fibro-fatty consistency with extensive fascia like extension to the surrounding soft tissue. The mass was encircling the ulnar neurovascular bundle with mass abutment over the radial bundle as seen in pre-op assessment. The mass was dissected freely from its attachment to those bundles preserving both radial and ulnar structures. The mass was then excised en-bloc having a dimension of 3.5 × 4x2.5 cm (). Histological assessment showed a lesion with fasciitis like features, myofibroblastic proliferation and scattered foci of osteoid formation that was positive for Alpha-Smooth Muscle Actin (ASMA 1A4) immune staining and no evidence of malignancy (). The resected margins were however, positive for residual lesion with difficulty in obtaining negative margins due to the extensive nature of the mass. Post-operatively, the patient had an un-eventual course. She was informed about the need for close follow-ups for both clinical and/or radiological signs of lesion recurrence, pending early surgical intervention (see ).