A 77-year-old female presented to the orthopedic hand clinic with a three-year history of an extremely sensitive small mass on her right wrist. The mass had subjectively grown over this period of time. The pain had progressively worsened over time, and she had developed significant hypersensitivity to light contact. There was no complaint of cold sensitivity to the mass. The pain occasionally radiated down the ulnar aspect of her wrist. She had no known history of previous trauma to this area; however, she did have a history of squamous cell carcinoma to the dorsal-radial aspect of that hand. This had been treated previously for which she subsequently developed a reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD), resulting in a delayed recovery in the range of motion. A previous stellate ganglion block did not provide relief for her RSD, and her range of motion had been slowly progressing with home exercises.
On physical exam, a small round nodule approximately 5 mm x 5 mm was palpable dorsal to the extensor carpi ulnaris and 1 cm proximal to the ulnar styloid. There was significant point tenderness that did not radiate or display a Tinel’s sign. Her imaging included plain films of the affected extremity that showed no abnormality outside of diffuse osteopenia.
The location and exam were consistent with a neuroma that had evolved from a cutaneous nerve or possibly from the dorsal sensory branch of the ulnar nerve. The patient was taken to the operative theatre and deep dissection revealed a maroon-colored mass approximately 5 mm x 5 mm, connected to a cutaneous nerve branch. The nerve and mass were excised and sent for histopathological review. The ulnar nerve and dorsal sensory branch were visualized and confirmed to have no involvement with the mass. At her first postoperative visit, she reported no pain and that she was very satisfied with the results of her surgery. Diagnostic pathological stains were consistent with a glomus tumor. This was confirmed with strong reactivity to immunostaining of type IV collagen and smooth muscle actin (Figures , ).