A 44-year old male was referred following investigation for chest pain and dyspnoea. He had no pre-existing co-morbidities. Physical examination revealed feeble femoral pulses and he was found to be hypertensive with marked differences between the upper and lower limbs (systolic blood pressure upper limb 190mmmHg, lower limb 75 mmHg, with an ankle brachial index (ABI) of 0.39). Electrocardiogram revealed evidence of severe left ventricular hypertrophy. This was confirmed with echocardiography which also demonstrated a tricuspid aortic valve with significant aortic regurgitation in the presence of an aortic root aneurysm of approximately 9 cm. Left ventricular function was preserved. Computerised tomography angiography (CTA) was performed to evaluate the aortic pathology in further detail (Fig. ). The scan noted an aortic root aneurysm (8.8 cm), in addition to the presence of severe aortic coarctation, with subtotal occlusion and a lumen less than 6 mm in size. The coarctation was just distal to the left subclavian artery, at the aortic isthmus. There was clear evidence of collateral circulation to the descending thoracic aorta via the subclavian and intercostal arteries. Coronary angiography confirmed a right dominant coronary system with no significant coronary disease.
A multidisciplinary team meeting took place and a consensus was agreed to proceed with a two staged hybrid approach, with the first phase involving an endovascular approach to stent the coarctation, followed by a second stage to perform the surgical repair of the aortic root aneurysm. The first stage to stent the coarctation was unsuccessful via the femoral approach, as the guidewire could not cross the coarctation. Assessment through angiography via the left brachial artery showed complete obstruction at the aortic isthmus. The decision was then made to proceed to a single stage surgical approach to treat both lesions.
After induction of anaesthesia, arterial lines were placed in the left radial and left femoral artery. A right infraclavicular incision and a right groin incision was made this was to establish peripheral arterial cannulation access to the right axillary and right femoral artery. An 8 mm dacron graft was anastomosed to each vessel for indirect cannulation. Median sternotomy was performed to access the mediastinum and expose the heart and aorta. Following heparinisation cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was established with venous return from bi-caval cannulation. The body temperature was cooled to 25 degrees Celsius. The right superior pulmonary vein was used for venting. Once the cross clamp was applied, complete cardiac arrest was achieved using Custodiol 25 ml/kg crystalloid cardioplegia via a retrograde cannula through the coronary sinus. A further top up of cardioplegia was given once the aorta was opened through direct cannulation of the coronary ostia.
The aortic root, valve and ascending aorta were excised. The coronary ostia were fashioned as buttons from the native aortic root. The coronary ostia were noted to be significantly displaced, with distorted anatomy due to the patient’s disease process. Therefore, 8 mm dacron grafts were attached end-to-end to each ostia, with view to performing the modified Cabrol technique later following replacement of the root. The heart was then retracted in a cephalad position to access the posterior pericardium. A vertical incision was made to expose the descending thoracic aorta (DTA). An end to side anastomosis was formed with a 20 mm dacron graft to the DTA (Fig. ). This graft was then routed posterior to the inferior vena cava (IVC) and anterior to the right inferior pulmonary vein (RIPV), adjacent to the right atrium (RA). Root replacement was then performed with a 25 mm biological valved-conduit, as this was favoured by the patient over a mechanical prosthesis, despite the risk of a difficult redo procedure in the future. The 8 mm dacron grafts attached to the coronary ostia were anastmosed to the root conduit as neo coronary ostia. The distal part of the valved-conduit was anastomosed to the proximal arch under selective antegrade cerebral perfusion (SACP). Finally, an end to side anastomosis was fashioned between the 20 mm extra-cardiac graft (attached to the descending thoracic aorta) and the ascending portion of the valved-conduit. Valve-sparing root replacement was not considered in this patient due to the grossly abnormal aortic anatomy.
Following rewarming and deairing the patient was successfully weaned off CPB. The bypass time was 160 min, the cross-clamp time was 120 min, and the SACP time was 40 min. Haemostasis was achieved and thereafter a routine closure of all incision sites. The patient remained in ICU for less than 48 h, and made excellent progress on the ward. Minimal anti-hypertensives were required and the patient was discharged on 8th day post operatively neurologically intact and independent. At 3 months follow up the patient underwent a repeat CTA scan which showed complete patency in the extra-anatomical graft and resolution of the collateral arterial network (Fig. ).