A 44-year old male was referred following investigation for chest pain and dyspnoea. He had no pre-existing co-morbidities. Physical examination revealed feeble femoral pulses and he was found to be hypertensive with marked differences between the upper and lower limbs (systolic blood pressure upper limb 190mmmHg, lower limb 75 mmHg, with an ankle brachial index (ABI) of 0.39). Electrocardiogram revealed evidence of severe left ventricular hypertrophy. This was confirmed with echocardiography which also demonstrated a tricuspid aortic valve with significant aortic regurgitation in the presence of an aortic root aneurysm of approximately 9 cm. Left ventricular function was preserved. Computerised tomography angiography (CTA) was performed to evaluate the aortic pathology in further detail (Fig. ). The scan noted an aortic root aneurysm (8.8 cm), in addition to the presence of severe aortic coarctation, with subtotal occlusion and a lumen less than 6 mm in size. The coarctation was just distal to the left subclavian artery, at the aortic isthmus. There was clear evidence of collateral circulation to the descending thoracic aorta via the subclavian and intercostal arteries. Coronary angiography confirmed a right dominant coronary system with no significant coronary disease.
A multidisciplinary team meeting took place and a consensus was agreed to proceed with a two staged hybrid approach, with the first phase involving an endovascular approach to stent the coarctation, followed by a second stage to perform the surgical repair of the aortic root aneurysm. The first stage to stent the coarctation was unsuccessful via the femoral approach, as the guidewire could not cross the coarctation. Assessment through angiography via the left brachial artery showed complete obstruction at the aortic isthmus. The decision was then made to proceed to a single stage surgical approach to treat both lesions.
After induction of anaesthesia, arterial lines were placed in the left radial and left femoral artery. A right infraclavicular incision and a right groin incision was made this was to establish peripheral arterial cannulation access to the right axillary and right femoral artery. An 8 mm dacron