A 60-year-old male who had a history of liver cirrhosis was referred for evaluation of a pain, swelling, and erythematous changes of the anterolateral aspect of his left leg. His symptoms started a month ago without any specific trauma. He had a history of open reduction and internal fixation performed for a tibial plateau fracture that occurred when his left knee was pinned under a tree 18 years ago. He had sciatic nerve injury at the time of the fracture. He had an open reduction and internal fixation as well as a stent insertion in the femoral artery 8 years after the initial trauma due to a distal femur fracture and femoral artery rupture. At that time, a widespread radiopaque mass was observed on plain radiographs of left leg, and obstruction of popliteal artery with abundant collateral circulation was observed on angiography. The patient had no difficulty with his daily life functions until the aforementioned symptoms appeared, except for limited motion in the ankle and toes and sensory reduction in his foot owing to the sciatic nerve injury.
After admission, the patient maintained with a long leg splint. Two weeks after the admission, the erythematous changes in the left leg localized to the anterior aspect in the middle of the leg and formed a fluid-filled, erythematous mass. A draining sinus had developed on the erythematous mass spontaneously and a thick fluid with a chalk-like material was discharged through the shiny skin via the sinus. The range of motion of the knee was 0 degrees to 100 degrees of flexion; ankle dorsiflexion was 0 degrees, ankle plantar flexion was 5 degrees, and all of the toes had clawing deformity. As for the motor strength of the ankle, the dorsiflexion was grade 0 and plantar flexion was grade 3. He had no sensation in the first web space and on the medial aspect of the foot, and had sensory reduction in the lateral, dorsal, and plantar aspects of the foot, in order of decreasing sensation.
The radiographs of the left leg taken 10 years