As home care doctors and general practitioners, we encountered a 37-year-old woman with ASD who lived with her parents in Japan. Her mother had end-stage breast cancer. We visited her house regularly to care for her mother. The woman with ASD was the main caregiver and a key person for her mother because her father was visually impaired. There were some obstacles we need to overcome together, but in the end, she was able to fulfill the role of the main caregiver for her mother.
When we started home care for the mother, we did not have any knowledge that the daughter was a person with ASD. However, we occasionally heard about her from home visit nurses and home care staff because they worried about whether the mother could continue to stay at home due to the lack of care provided by family members. According to home care staff members, the woman with ASD was usually not present when the home care staff visited the home for her mother's care. They could not contact her or talk with her about her mother's condition. She focused on dishwashing and did not appear concerned about how her mother's medications or clothes were organized or whether the room was clean or not. She could not communicate well with home care staff even when she talked with them. Thus, we did not initially recognize that she was a person with ASD or another developmental disorder. We were wondering why she was having trouble managing the home care schedule and chores even though she worked as an engineer. The home care staff's distrust of the daughter caused irritation and stress in the daughter and the home care staff.
After a few home care visits, with the daughter's consent, the mother's care manager informed us that she had been diagnosed with ASD in adulthood. Her parents had not been informed of the diagnosis. The daughter did not want to let her parents know about the diagnosis. The home care staff started to feel strongly that it was too difficult for the daughter to continue home care for the mother. The woman with ASD also felt difficulties in communicating with staff and understanding how her mother felt or how it feels to be severely ill. Therefore, we initiated consultation and social skill training in our outpatient clinic for the daughter. We discussed the traits of ASD as well as solutions or strategies to manage ASD traits in the home care setting. When we gave her instructions, we tried to make them more specific and provided examples so that she could understand them easily. For example, we suggested that she needed to come into her mother's room to share her mother's condition when the home care staff made a visit.
After several consultations, she gradually obtained life skills in communication, scheduling, and managing things related to home care, such as expectations during home care staff visits or what she should do for her mother. Her psychological stress and caregiving burden decreased day by day. We also shared the fact that she was diagnosed with ASD with home care staff as well as appropriate attitudes, support, and communication styles. We shared her behavioral characteristics with staff, such as lower interest in sharing emotions with others or having difficulties in understanding social cues such as eye contact, facial expressions, and metaphors.
Five months after the start of home-based care, her mother's condition worsened temporarily. The woman with ASD could not understand her mother's discomfort or pain and her father's sadness and serious feelings about the poor prognosis of his wife. She could not understand why her father was at a loss for words upon hearing the doctor's explanation of her mother's severe condition. Therefore, she asked him “Didn't you hear, Dad?” in a loud voice. These types of reactions by the daughter interfered with her father's acceptance of her mother's condition and he was unable to continue to listen the explanation. After this event, we explained why her father become silent while during the explanation of her mother's condition. We made a rule that we will tell her beforehand what we would say and how she should act when we share bad news. For example, we told her beforehand that we were going to tell her father about her mother's poor condition and prognosis and asked her to listen until we finished. We also told her how her father would react and our guess of the reasons for his reaction. Inappropriate behavior that is not suitable for the situation decreased afterward. She also felt relieved that she knew what she should do and could support her father as much as possible.
Seven months after the start of home-based care, the mother passed away at home as her mother and she herself hoped. When her mother needed to use oral opioids and subcutaneous injection of opioids, the woman with ASD was able to communicate with homecare staff and ask for help to offer better care for her mother. Her mother died peacefully without any severe pain or discomfort. The woman with ASD did not become confused and was able to accept her mother's death peacefully with her father.