A 60-year-old female presented to the outpatient cardiology clinic for evaluation of worsening chronic hypertension for which she had been on hydrochlorothiazide/Valsartan for 10 years. Her systolic blood pressure exceeded 200 mmHg in the office, and aggressive medical therapy was initiated in the outpatient setting. She returned to the emergency department the following day with headache and malaise and systolic blood pressure above 200 mmHg for which she was treated and discharged.
She returned to the emergency department again 5 days later, this time with complaints of word finding difficulty, blurred vision, and lower extremity tingling. Her blood pressure on presentation was 216/81 mmHg. She was admitted, and workup demonstrated no acute intracranial process or carotid stenosis. Echocardiography revealed mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with a preserved ejection fraction. Her blood pressure continued to be refractory to medical therapy despite five antihypertensive agents and eventual initiation of an esmolol infusion. A renal artery ultrasound identified renal artery stenosis with flow at the arterial origin measuring 350 cm/s on the right and 208 cm/s on the left (); flow velocity in the supraceliac aorta was also noted to be elevated. She had no history of kidney disease and no elevation of her creatinine. Vascular surgery was consulted and a history of lower extremity claudication was elicited. On exam she had weak but palpable femoral pulses and an audible abdominal aortic bruit; ankle-brachial index measurements were deferred and the patient was scheduled for angiogram.
The patient underwent aortography the following day and on selective angiography the renal arteries were found to be widely patent. Significant stenosis was identified at the distal thoracic aorta extending into the abdominal aorta but terminating proximal to the celiac trunk. The degree of stenosis was deemed to be greater than 90% and a pressure gradient between the upper extremity and intra-aortic measurements exceeded 100 mmHg. CTA was subsequently performed to evaluate the extent of the lesion and confirmed a stenosis 1.3 cm proximal to the celiac origin measuring 5 mm at its narrowest point (Figures and ). The patient underwent arteriogram; the stenosis was successfully navigated and a Protege 14 × 40 x 12 mm nitinol stent (Medtronic Vascular, Santa Rosa CA) was delivered followed by a 10 mm postdilation balloon. A completion arteriogram demonstrated excellent flow across the stent.
After stenting, the patients' systolic blood pressure was 140-160 mmHg, and she experienced resolution of her lower extremity claudication. She was discharged from the hospital on Aspirin and Plavix and a blood pressure regimen consisting of lisinopril, hydralazine, amlodipine, and carvedilol.
She was lost to follow-up until two years later when she returned to the hospital with a blood pressure of 220/85 mmHg, with complaints of chest discomfort. CTA demonstrated stenosis in the distal portion of the aortic stent. An angiogram was performed, and the stent was ballooned to 12 mm. Pressure gradient measurements taken before and after dilatation decreased from 60 mmHg to 20 mmHg. On follow-up one year later, she continued to experience excellent blood pressure control.