A 40-year-old Asian woman who had been in her usual state of good health was incidentally found to have a small nodule in the lower lobe of her right lung during a regular medical checkup. The patient was seen in the department of medicine of our hospital for further evaluation. The patient’s family history was noncontributory, and a physical examination revealed no abnormalities. The results of laboratory studies were either within normal limits or negative. A computed tomographic (CT) scan revealed a lytic lesion of the fifth lumbar vertebral bone, as well as a small nodule (1.2 cm in diameter) in the lower lobe of the right lung (Fig. ). The vertebral lesion was situated on the left transverse process and was separated from the spinal canal (Fig. ). Biopsy specimens of both lesions were histologically similar and showed spindle cell neoplasms with a bland appearance; however, we could not make a definitive diagnosis, owing to the small size of the samples. The patient was placed under close observation with suspicion of multiple metastases from an unknown primary tumor.
Five years later, a CT scan indicated that the pulmonary nodule had slightly increased in size. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging also revealed an increase in the size of the lytic lesion in the left transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. To evaluate both the pulmonary and vertebral lesions, video-assisted thoracic surgery for the pulmonary lesion and curettage of the lytic bone lesion were performed. The orthopedic surgeons found that the tumor of the fifth left transverse process was exposed on the posterior surface but not on the anterior surface. They also found that the vertebral lesion was completely confined within the vertebral bone and was not connected to the spinal canal. During the clinical course (105 months), no significant findings other than the pulmonary and vertebral lesions were found, even with imaging examinations, including CT and MR imaging. The patient made good postoperative progress and remained free of disease at 41 months after the operation.
The resected specimen of the lung contained a well-