The patient was a 76-year-old man who came to the office in 2014 looking for possible treatments of his fractured central incisors. Nothing was found relevant about his medical condition. The patient shows a high risk for caries and also eccentric bruxism. He has partial edentulism in the superior left quadrant and multiple decay and fractured teeth. The initial approach was conservative aiming to keep the upper front by means of composite fillings (Figures and ). Then, the posterior superior quadrants needed to be restored with implants.
Three years after, in 2017, the patient came back to the office referring pain of endodontic origin in the upper left canine. New and secondary subgingival caries were found in the six front teeth. The conservative prognosis was considered poor due to the subgingival depth and extent of decay presented by the lesions from canine to canine. After having discussed the treatment options, especially the surgical lengthening of the front teeth or the orthodontic extrusion, the patient decides to replace the residual teeth with a new implant-supported bridge similar to the recently performed prostheses of the posterior areas that were judged by him as a highly satisfactory treatment. The patient preferred not to involve these restorations in the present anterior treatment and limited it to place only two implants in the lateral incisors' positions ().
The treatment was carried out in a staged approach. Briefly, first, we extracted the lateral incisors, using the SST, and placed two immediate implants. The four residual teeth were then prepared to be used as abutments of a temporary bridge for the purpose of maintaining the aesthetics and function of the patient during the early osseointegration period. In a further step, the four remaining teeth were also extracted using the SST, and the initial provisional bridge was replaced by the second provisional screwed on the uncovered implants. Only one out of the four abutment teeth used for the temporization of root canal treatment was needed due to a periapical infection.
When placing the two immediate implants into the alveolus of the lateral incisors, a section of the buccal part of the root (about the two middle thirds) was left in place and no biomaterial was used at all. An impression of the implants was taken to have the second temporary bridge available in the second surgery. Healing abutments were then attached with the proper height for the soft tissue to cover them but at the same time facilitating the uncovering. Finally, a temporary acrylic bridge was cemented onto the four abutment teeth 13-11 and 21-23 ().
Three months later, the implants were uncovered, the four abutment teeth were extracted, again with the SST—partial extraction of the roots—but this time no more implants were placed in these sockets. The first provisional cemented onto the teeth was then replaced by a second acrylic bridge screwed onto the implants though temporary abutments ().
The partial extraction of the canines, aiming to leave a buccal slice of the root, was so hard to perform, and further instrumentation would lead to the socket destruction that a decision was intraoperatively made and a greater portion of the root, including the apex, was finally left. As the locations of the canines did not involve the implant sites, any potential complication could be addressed efficiently.
One month later, the prosthodontic phase was undertaken. Little if any differences in the buccal tissue volume and no noticeable aesthetic impact could be found after the multiple extractions (). The desired position of the incisal border was determined by various try-ins, and five months after implant surgery, the definitive prosthesis was placed. The final clinical aspect can be appreciated in the pictures (Figures and ).