The patient was a 76-year-old man who came to the office in 2014 looking for possible treatments of his fractured central incisors. Nothing was found relevant about his medical condition. The patient shows a high risk for caries and also eccentric bruxism. He has partial edentulism in the superior left quadrant and multiple decay and fractured teeth. The initial approach was conservative aiming to keep the upper front by means of composite fillings (Figures and ). Then, the posterior superior quadrants needed to be restored with implants.
Three years after, in 2017, the patient came back to the office referring pain of endodontic origin in the upper left canine. New and secondary subgingival caries were found in the six front teeth. The conservative prognosis was considered poor due to the subgingival depth and extent of decay presented by the lesions from canine to canine. After having discussed the treatment options, especially the surgical lengthening of the front teeth or the orthodontic extrusion, the patient decides to replace the residual teeth with a new implant-supported bridge similar to the recently performed prostheses of the posterior areas that were judged by him as a highly satisfactory treatment. The patient preferred not to involve these restorations in the present anterior treatment and limited it to place only two implants in the lateral incisors' positions ().
The treatment was carried out in a staged approach. Briefly, first, we extracted the lateral incisors, using the SST, and placed two immediate implants. The four residual teeth were then prepared to be used as abutments of a temporary bridge for the purpose of maintaining the aesthetics and function of the patient during the early osseointegration period. In a further step, the four remaining teeth were also extracted using the SST, and the initial provisional bridge was replaced by the second provisional screwed on the uncovered implants. Only one out of the four abutment teeth used for the temporization of root canal treatment was needed due to a periapical infection.
When placing the two