A 50 year old female patient previously healthy has undergone an abdominal ultrasound demanded by her primary care physician when her routine checkup blood test showed a slightly elevated level of liver enzymes with no other lab abnormalities. This ultrasound showed right adrenal lesion of 9 cm of diameter. An Abdominal MRI was then done and revealed a soft tissue necrotic encapsulated mass of 10 × 9 cm of right adrenal gland origin. She was completely asymptomatic and the physical exam was strictly normal. Endocrinological evaluation was done with normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function and no hyper secretion of catecholamines. The patient was considered to have a non-secreting right adrenal mass for which an adrenal scan was done and showed a well encapsulated 10 × 9 × 7 cm heterogeneous right adrenal mass with areas of necrosis and calcifications without local invasion (). The decision of right laparoscopic trans peritoneal adrenalectomy was taken with the patient. The surgery was done under general anesthesia after central and arterial lines insertion, the patient was on left decubitus position. 5 trocars were inserted as follows: The first 12-mm port was inserted at the lateral border of the rectus abdominis muscle just above the level of the umbilicus to accommodate the camera. Two subcostal 11 mm ports were also placed; one in the midclavicular line and the other in the lateral border of the rectus abdominis muscle. The forth 5-mm subcostal trocar was inserted in the anterior axillary line to retract the liver and the fifth 5 mm one was inserted in the epigastrium and used specially for aspiration and irrigation. After liver retraction, the peritoneum along the lateral aspect of the IVC was incised to expose the IVC just below its intrahepatic course. The duodenum which was diverted by the mass was mobilized. Dissection was next carried inferiorly by incising the peritoneum along the lateral edge of the vena cava to the superior edge of the renal vein. Dissection of the mass was subsequently carried out with special care at the medial aspect where we found that the wall of the IVC and the renal vein were very adherent to the mass which had a lot of small vessels that were oozing during all the time of the surgery (). In addition, the mass was extended posterior to the vena cava and we could not do a medial retraction of the IVC since the tumor was adherent to it. In front of these facts, we decided to convert to open surgery by a sub-costal incision (between two trocars) that allowed us to remove the mass safely (). A drain was put in the retro peritoneum at the end of the surgery, the operative time was 200 min, the blood loss was 850 cc and no transfusion was done. The drain was removed at the second post-operative day and the patient was discharged uneventfully on the sixth day after surgery.
Histologically, the tumor consisted of spindle cells with alternating areas of compact hypercellularity with irregular streams and without atypia or mitosis (). This tumor was completely compressing and reducing the adrenal gland that was laminated but intact without histological abnormalities (). Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated negative CKAE1-AE3, synaptophysine and chromogranine. In contrast to these results, S-100 and CD68 (PGM1) staining were diffusely positive across the tumor (). Thus, the evidences corresponded to a benign schwannoma ().