A 50 year old female patient previously healthy has undergone an abdominal ultrasound demanded by her primary care physician when her routine checkup blood test showed a slightly elevated level of liver enzymes with no other lab abnormalities. This ultrasound showed right adrenal lesion of 9 cm of diameter. An Abdominal MRI was then done and revealed a soft tissue necrotic encapsulated mass of 10 × 9 cm of right adrenal gland origin. She was completely asymptomatic and the physical exam was strictly normal. Endocrinological evaluation was done with normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function and no hyper secretion of catecholamines. The patient was considered to have a non-secreting right adrenal mass for which an adrenal scan was done and showed a well encapsulated 10 × 9 × 7 cm heterogeneous right adrenal mass with areas of necrosis and calcifications without local invasion (). The decision of right laparoscopic trans peritoneal adrenalectomy was taken with the patient. The surgery was done under general anesthesia after central and arterial lines insertion, the patient was on left decubitus position. 5 trocars were inserted as follows: The first 12-mm port was inserted at the lateral border of the rectus abdominis muscle just above the level of the umbilicus to accommodate the camera. Two subcostal 11 mm ports were also placed; one in the midclavicular line and the other in the lateral border of the rectus abdominis muscle. The forth 5-mm subcostal trocar was inserted in the anterior axillary line to retract the liver and the fifth 5 mm one was inserted in the epigastrium and used specially for aspiration and irrigation. After liver retraction, the peritoneum along the lateral aspect of the IVC was incised to expose the IVC just below its intrahepatic course. The duodenum which was diverted by the mass was mobilized. Dissection was next carried inferiorly by incising the peritoneum along the lateral edge of the vena cava to the superior edge of the renal vein. Dissection of the mass was subsequently carried out with special care at the medial aspect where